An issue that appears in a number of contributions concerns cultural
narrowness.[[1]]  In a nutshell, does Aristotle provide an account of happiness
that applies to all people or is his account constrained in one or more ways by
his cultural vantage? First, does Aristotle's account no longer apply to
contemporary readers as a result of cultural change or distance? Second, does
Aristotle's account apply even to all people of his own time and place? Or does
it apply only to a very select group of wealthy, citizen males of 4th century
Athens?[[2]]

In the book's introduction, Ronald Polansky argues that Aristotle's ethics are
not "pertinent only to his time" (9). Polansky's first argument is based on
a well-known article of Elizabeth Anscombe.[[3]] They argue that Aristotle's
approach to ethics is broader than modern ethics rather than narrower. Whereas
modern philosophical ethics focuses solely on right action, the domain of
morality, Aristotle considers far more: fear and courage, pleasure, the proper
use of money. Polansky's second argument is far broader than this first one:
<q>When Aristotle treats the virtues of character and intellect, he aims to be
comprehensive. The eleven or so virtues of character intend to cover all that
contributes to making actions and emotions appropriate. Virtues having to do
with fear and confidence, bodily pleasures, money, honor, anger, social
interactions, and fairness hardly seem antiquated, and they may deal with all
the vital areas of practical life. Aristotle has virtues relating to sense of
humor and expenditure on parties, not because they ancient Greeks had a culture
so different from ours, different though it may be, but because these have
a role in any culture, and they pertain to how we assess human lives.</q> (8).
Polansky appears to claim here that (1) Aristotle indeed "may" deal with
everything essential to a good life and (2) that nothing he includes is
essential only to his culture.

By way of considering Polansky's claims, we can examine two of the other essays
in the volume. Hellen Cullyer admits that there is a <i>prima facie</i> case
that Aristotle's views on magnificence, or large expenditures, may restrict the
scope of his ethics to the very wealthy. However, she argues (following
Pakaluk) that we can understand Aristotle to intend any "expenditures beyond
those of normal household outlays" (138). In his chapter on phronesis and the
virtues, Daniel C. Russell also considers Aristotle on magnificence as well as
magnanimity, a character trait that appears restricted to people of "high
social prominence" (216). Russell's specific concern is the reciprocity of the
virtues.  Since Aristotle believes that a person must have all the virtues in
order to possess any of them, a virtue that only applies to the very wealthy or
the socially elite is a serious problem for his entire endeavor.

A question I would add that none of these authors considers is this: Would
Aristotle himself agree that his ethics applies to all humans? Clearly not,
since he restricts it to mature adults (get reference). But even if we wave
this more trivial objection, isn't it clear that Aristotle knows his account of
ethics does not and cannot apply to women or slaves?

[[1]] I've borrowed this term from Ronald Polansky's introduction.

[[2]] Or perhaps wealthy male Greeks more generally.

[[3]] "Modern Moral Philosophy" <i>Philosophy</i> (1958), 33, 1-19.

A number of authors take up Aristotle's continuation of peras and apeiron in an
ethical context. Moss on belief/desire and Miller on friendship. Some
interconnections here would have been fruitful.

Authors who try to redefine the terms of older debates:

1. Moss on Humean versus unHumean motivation in Aristotle
2. Lockwood on inclusivist versus dominant interpretations of the best life in
   Aristotle

Typos:

1. Moss on citations of Cooper
2. Lockwood page 361, note 28 "under perfect condition" should be "under
   perfect conditions".
3. "Worries...seems unwarranted" page 362.
